Well, I think we would agree
that it’s very heart-warming to know
that we serve a God of comfort,
and he provides us with so many reminders
that highlight the need for us to encourage,
strengthen, and comfort one another.
Especially now in the times in which we live,
because none of us know the full weight
of what our brothers
here in the Bethel family
and our congregations
might be facing or dealing with.
So having and showing empathy
and fellow feeling
toward one another is so important.
Perhaps a good example of how not to show
comfort and fellow feeling
is described for us
by Job’s three comforters.
You might recall
that they were so busy judging him
and giving Job speeches
that they failed to take the time
to understand him
and to show fellow feeling.
In fact, in all the talking they did,
not once do we read
that they even addressed Job by name.
The Watchtower  made a statement
regarding these comforters.
It said: “Evidently they viewed [Job]
more as a problem than as a person.”
Now, how do you think
that treatment made Job feel?
Turn with me in your Bibles
to Job chapter 19,
and we’ll listen to Job’s words
—Job 19:2.
He says:
“How long will you keep irritating my soul,
crushing me with words?”
How sad!
Instead of providing
encouragement and comfort,
those companions
only made Job feel irritated,
crushed, and frustrated.
Well, doesn’t this highlight
that if we don’t give thoughts
to our words and actions,
if we view our brother
more as a problem than as a person,
then we’re not going
to be able to provide them
with the comfort
and support they may need?
Perhaps we might work with
or we’re in the congregation
with someone that has faults
or traits that bother us,
and it may be that these faults
are actually legitimate causes of concern.
But in our dealings with them,
if those faults
are the only things that we can see,
if that’s the only thing we focus on,
then it’s going to be very difficult
for us to see them
as a faithful fellow worker of Jehovah.
More than likely,
all that we’re going to see
is someone who is an obstacle
or impediment to our work,
someone who is affecting
or impacting our production and joy.
And certainly,
we’re not going to feel good
because now we’ve developed
negative feelings about our brother,
and our brother is likely going
to feel the spirit that we give off.
How is that going to affect them?
Well, like Job, likely they’re going
to be frustrated and irritated,
and we’ve only added to their anxiety.
Well, obviously, none of us want to have
that sort of effect on our brothers,
and that’s why Paul’s words
to the Thessalonians
are a good example worthy of imitation.
When we look at this congregation
—practically from the beginning,
the congregation
that was established in Thessalonica—
those brothers and sisters
experienced persecution.
In Acts chapter 17,
it mentions that fanatical Jews
stirred up mob violence,
prompting the brothers
to send Paul and Silas away
for their personal safety.
Another issue
that was affecting the congregation
was that they
seemingly expressed great sorrow
over losing ones of their number in death.
So now think about that.
You have the full picture.
Here you have a brand new congregation,
and they’re feeling the heat and pressure
of intense persecution from the outside,
and then on the inside,
they’re feeling the pain
of losing loved ones in death.
Is that congregation in need
of comfort and encouragement?
Without question.
But interestingly, in the midst
of all of this persecution and sadness,
it was also discovered that those Christians
were dealing and struggling
with some personal weaknesses.
When you look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 4,
there they were counseled
to abstain from fornication,
to love one another in fuller measure,
to mind their own business,
to work with their hands.
Then in chapter 5,
to stay awake spiritually
and to abstain from every form of wickedness
and a number of other matters
that needed attention.
Now, each of those matters
were all legitimate causes of concern.
In fact, Paul felt this was so urgent
that he sent them a second letter
which closely followed his first.
But what was Paul going to focus on?
Would he focus on the problem
or the people?
Turn with me, please,
to 2 Thessalonians chapter 1.
Let’s note how Paul begins this chapter.
Second Thessalonians chapter 1,
and we’ll read his words
beginning in verse 3.
He says: “We are obligated always
to give thanks to God for you, brothers.
“This is fitting,
because your faith is growing exceedingly
“and the love of each and every one of you
is increasing toward one another.
“As a result we ourselves take pride in you
among the congregations of God
“because of your endurance
and faith in all your persecutions
and the hardships that you are suffering.”
How beautiful!
Did you note that Paul starts
with specific commendation?
Yes, there were problems
that needed to be addressed,
but he starts with their good qualities
—what they were doing right.
Can you and I do the same
in our dealings with our brothers?
Instead of first thinking
about what they’re doing wrong,
what do they do right?
What do we appreciate about them?
Isn’t it so much better
to focus on their good traits?
The benefits of doing this
is that it helps us to develop
genuine personal interest in our brothers.
Because if our brothers
can sense that we truly care about them,
then it actually puts us in a better position
to assist them with any matters
that may need adjustment.
And what we’ll find
is that this personal interest
can start with something
as simple as acknowledgement.
You’ll recall that Job’s false comforters
didn’t even address Job by name.
But with the young man Elihu,
when he was given the opportunity to speak
(when addressing Job),
he respectfully addressed him by name.
At Job 33:1,
Elihu begins his words by saying:
“Job, please hear my words.”
And there were many other verses
where he used Job’s personal name as well.
I think we’d agree
that sometimes it can be so easy
(especially for us as brothers),
to get into work mode, business mode
—where we’re just so focused
on getting information,
whether it’s here at Bethel
or in the congregation—
that we could completely forget
to acknowledge
or even greet
the brother in front of us.
So what a beautiful reminder
we learn from Elihu!
Now, if we go back to Paul,
after his commendation
in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1,
he starts chapter 2
of 2 Thessalonians with the word
“however.”
So now there’s a contrast;
there’s a shift in wording,
and he begins to address
the problem that some had developed
regarding a wrong view of Christ’s presence.
So we learn from this
that Paul did not sugarcoat or overlook
issues that needed to be addressed.
He handled them.
But he did it in such a way
that the brothers were still able to feel
his loving care and concern.
In fact, if you look in verse 13,
you’ll notice he uses
the word “however” again.
So another shift,
but this time shifting back
to words of empathy, love,
and exhortation for his brothers.
Paul was convinced,
he had a positive conviction,
that his brothers would do the right thing.
So in review,
if we want to be a source
of comfort and encouragement to our brothers,
how important it is that we see them
not as a problem,
not as an impediment to our work,
but as our fellow worker.
And instead of judging, we commend
—showing genuine personal interest
and acknowledgement.
And if there is
a legitimate issue of concern,
well, we can lovingly address
what needs to be addressed.
But let’s always be remembered more
for our encouragement than our counsel.
And if we’re able to do this,
then our brothers are going to love us
for the way that we deal with them.
But more important, our Heavenly Father,
our God of comfort will love us as well.